# ESP_MESH_UAV_MSc
A repository containing C code from my Master of Science thesis "Conceptual design of the Wi-Fi controller for the unmanned platform measurement system." ESP32, ESP-MESH framework and FreeRTOS used in development.
Abstract of my MSc thesis:
Along with the progressive development of wireless data transmission and processing techniques, solutions are emerging that assume the replacement of traditional wired networks used in the structures of aviation measurement systems with their wireless counterparts. Such solutions are known under the notion of wireless sensor networks, and their use in aviation can bring many benefits, the most important of which is the reduction of the weight of the aircraft, which directly translates into a reduction in operating costs.
The interest in the issues described above, as well as the desire to explore the possibilities they offer, were the motivation to undertake the task of carrying out this work, the subject of which is the use of the idea of wireless sensor networks in the field of aviation measurement systems.
Having regard to the above, the objective of the master thesis was defined as the development of a concept of a measurement system based on the idea of wireless sensor networks using information transmission in Wi-Fi standard, then implementation of selected elements of this concept and finally conducting research allowing for the formulation of conclusions whether the proposed solution can perform the function of a measurement system for an unmanned aerial vehicle.
The first stage of the work included a review and analysis of wireless information transmission technologies. The applied wireless transmission technologies defined by IEEE standards were characterized, as well as other technologies not yet fully covered by the standardization process.
This was followed by a review of miniature modules for data transmission in Wi-Fi standard and a review of measurement transducers of motion environment parameters used on board unmanned aerial vehicles of Mini, Micro or Nano category. This allowed, during the completion of subsequent project tasks, to select specific hardware and software solutions to enable the implementation of the project.
Subsequently, a conceptual design was developed, assuming the implementation of a wireless sensory network in a star topology, which network will be built of two measuring nodes measuring the values of temperature, atmospheric pressure and ambient humidity. The measurement data will be transmitted wirelessly to the base node, which, apart from the above-mentioned parameters, also measures the values of linear and angular accelerations. The developed concept assumes remote access to information exchanged in a wireless sensor network via the Internet.
The next stage of the work concerned the implementation of the concept and the fulfillment of the set design requirements, as well as the presentation of a description of the process. ESP32-WROOM-32D modules placed on ESP32-DevKitC development boards were selected as the hardware platform, to which BME280 digital transducers measuring pressure, temperature and humidity, MPU-6050 linear and angular acceleration transducer and TMP36 analogue temperature sensor were connected. In turn, for the development of the software part, it was decided to use the Eclipse IDE integrated development environment, the capabilities of the FreeRTOS real-time operating system, and a wireless communication protocol called ESP-MESH.
As a result of the work performed, a properly functioning solution of a measurement system based on the idea of wireless sensor networks was developed, successfully using the ESP-MESH communication protocol for communication between network nodes. The constructed wireless sensor network has basic self-forming and self-healing capabilities and meets most of the formulated design requirements.
Finally, the research was carried out, the results of which confirmed the achievement of the established purpose of the work and allowed for the presentation of conclusions on the work performed.
